Apply storage concepts to Windows containers running on Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) and AKS Hybrid
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/training/modules/apply-storage-concepts-to-windows-containers/

containers need to use external storage mechanisms that provide data persistence and sharing.

These container orchestrators use persistent storage solutions like persistent volumes (PVs), persistent volume claims (PVCs), and Container Storage Interface (CSI) drivers.

Storage concepts for containers

Layer storage: can change where the files are stored using the docker-root(or equivalent with container) configuration, but you shouldn't modify any files in the layer directories


Persistent storage
give persistent storage to your Windows containers in a couple of ways:
	• Bind mounts
	• Named volumes

if you want a container to run on multiple machines with access to the same files, then a named volume or SMB (Server Message Block) mount should be used instead. 

docker run -v c:\ContainerData:c:\data

Named Volumes
docker volume create myvolume docker run -v myvolume:c:\data microsoft/windowsservercore


A volume doesn't increase the size of the containers using it (just like bind mount), and the volume's contents exist outside the lifecycle of a given container.


Storage concepts for Kubernetes

Kubernetes architecture
Control plane
Nodes


persistent storage
volumes and bind mounts have some drawbacks when used in a distributed environment like Kubernetes.

two abstractions: persistent volumes and persistent volume claims.

PVs have a lifecycle independent of any individual Pod that uses the PV.

A persistent volume claim (PVC) requests storage of a particular StorageClass, access mode, and size.

Persistent volumes are a one-to-one mapping to a persistent volume claim.


Windows container storage with Azure Kubernetes Service
When you create an AKS cluster, a control plane is automatically created and configured. This control plane is provided at no cost 

Container Storage Interface
CSI is a standard for exposing arbitrary block and file storage systems to containerized workloads on Kubernetes.


Azure Disks are mounted as ReadWriteOnce and are only available to one node in AKS. For storage volumes that can be accessed by multiple nodes simultaneously, use Azure Files.

with version 1.26, AKS will no longer support volumes created using in-tree driver and storage provisioned for files and disk.


A PersistentVolumeClaim requests storage of a particular StorageClass, access mode, and size. 


Windows container storage with AKS Hybrid

1. Which type of storage is used for file creation and file writes inside a Windows container?
A: Scratch space

2. What is a 'StorageClass'?
A: An object that defines a set of parameters and policies for provisioning storage in the cluster.
Correct. A 'StorageClass' is an object that defines the parameters of an Azure storage resource, including the storage tier, location and reclaim policy.

3. What type of persistent storage volume in Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) is available to multiple nodes at the same time?
A: AKS Files

Correct. AKS Files volumes backed by SMB or NFS file shares are mounted as ReadWriteMany and are available to multiple nodes concurrently.






