Creating and Giving Business Presentations
https://www.linkedin.com/learning/creating-and-giving-business-presentations/building-great-business-presentations?contextUrn=urn%3Ali%3AlyndaLearningPath%3A1~AAAAAAAgNkk%3D2558073&u=2111049

Building great business presentation


All of the following are steps in developing a compelling presentation EXCEPT:
A: Preload audience members with the complete details of your presentation in the days prior to actually delivering it. 
Correct 
Giving your audience all the information you plan to present in advance eliminates the need for a presentation at all. To keep your audience engaged, give them just enough information ahead of time so they know what you'll be discussing, but don't give away your presentation! 


How much preparation time is needed to deliver a compelling presentation?
A: it depends on the content of the presentation 
Correct 
Sometimes, you don't get to dictate when your presentation will be. While it helps to have plenty of advance notice, that isn't always an option. As a presenter, you must make the most of whatever time you are given to deliver the most compelling presentation possible. 


M2: Plan your presentation
=====


Familiar topics 
Use insider language
Make common comparisions

Ask clarifying questions

Show me the money

Identify your audience knowledge level



Resistant audience 

Communication styles:

Forest vs trees

Facts vs emotion

Start with a story for indirect culture

Perception


How should you plan a presentation for an audience that has a mixed level of knowledge on the topic?
A: Refer to both high- and low-content knowledge by defining terms for some and connecting to prior knowledge for others. 
Correct 
By appealing to both those that are well-versed in the subject of your presentation as well as those that are not, it is suggested that you fluctuate between defining necessary terms for some, while connecting to prior knowledge of the audience members that are more knowledgeable on your subject. It is a tricky balance, but it can be found. 

Which of the following is an example of properly accommodating an audience's preferred communication style?
A: To accommodate indirect communication cultures, begin with a story, history, or a local fable aligned to the topic. 
Correct 
Many cultures that utilize indirect communication prefer to have an emotional attachment to a presentation. By beginning with a story or fable aligned with your topic, you help to establish that emotional connection from the on set. 


Your audience may be ready to hear your message, apathetic to it, or even skeptical. After you research your audience and discover they may be skeptical, how should you proceed?
A: Begin by showing you know their concerns and allow for dialogue to occur early in the presentation. 
Correct 
Opening your presentation by acknowledging concerns and allowing a dialogue will help to get your resistant audience members engaged, and hopefully alleviate some of their initial concerns and allow you to dive into the rest of your consent with a more empathetic audience. 


No matter why the audience is attending your presentation, you should communicate _____ from the very start of your presentation.
A: the audience value (what's in it for them?) 
Correct 
By establishing the value your presentation provides to the audience early on, you give yourself a more attentive audience. Do your homework and know what is important to your audience, and communicate how your ideas will build on that. 


M3: design your presentation
=====
Brainstorm

Use emotion

Alliteration
Repetetion
Antithesis

Organize your contents


Your presentation should be like a neatly wrapped present. What does this suggest?
A: Begin with a bang and use a hook to get your audience's attention. 
Correct 
Much like a neatly wrapped present, your presentation should begin by creating intrigue as to "what's in the box," or what the rest of your presentation will cover. 


are examples of language tools that can make your content engaging.
A: Alliteration and repetition 
Correct 
Your answer is accurate! (notice the alliteration?) Alliteration and repetition make content interesting to listen to. 


The key to presentation is presenting a few crucial points to help the audience grasp the overall message. How can you accomplish this?
A: Brainstorm possible topics, ask clarifying questions to your contact person, and research to narrow your presentation scope. 
Correct 
Less is more is a fantastic phrase to keep in mind when collecting information for your presentation. By focusing your presentation on what's most important to your audience and narrowing the scope of your presentation, you will be able to more effectively deliver the most important concepts of your presentation. 


M4: design your slides
=====
Introduction, body , conclusion

Flow, visual , Q&A

Build your deck


All of the following are examples of key points to remember when designing presentation slides EXCEPT _____.

A: Your slide animations and transitions should be attention-grabbing and excite the audience. 
Correct 
Slide animations and transitions should be as simple as possible. You want the focus of the audience to be on you and the content you are discussing, not the animations on the slideshow. 


When you ask a trusted colleague for constructive feedback on your presentation slides, which question is LEAST helpful?
A: 
Do you enjoy seeing presentations by speakers outside of your company? 
Correct 
Whether your colleague enjoys presentations from outside speakers or not is totally irrelevant to the content of your presentation. Focus on your presentation and how it can be improved to be effectively convey information to your specific audience. 


When designing a presentation and you get to the visuals, all of the following are correct except:
A: Begin by designing slides first for inspiration on what you should present. Next, organize your slides and content appropriately. 
Correct 
It's tempting to dive right into Powerpoint and find the most interesting visuals. However, doing so without planning your content and presentation flow first will result in a disjointed presentation. 


Be sure to account for possible questions from your audience and plan for a hyperlinked questions and answer slide. 
Incorrect 
Planning for the question and answer section of the presentation with strategic slides is the finishing touch of an effective presentation. 


M5: Deliver your presentation
=====
Practices make perfect

Smart use of space 

Gestures that engage


A Q&A session allows you to connect, inform, and inspire. Which example demonstrates the most effective way of doing this?
A: Invite questions with review of content and prepare a closing statement in advance. 
Correct 
It helps to get a Q&A going by briefly reviewing your content. Once the questions from the audience end, a strong closing statement is a great way to send the audience away thinking highly of you and your presentation. 


Which choice is an effective example of a strong opening and/or closing?
A: Use the opening as the what and connect the dots from the opening to the closing. 
Correct 
You need to engage your audience from the get-go, and the best way to do that is to convey what's in it for them. Why does this presentation matter to your audience? Communicating that early on is critical, and it sets you up for effective close by connecting the dots between your intro and conclusion. 


Strong posture and deliberate movement can exude confidence during a presentation. Which is an example of using movement to your advantage?
A: To make a strong closing point, take two steps forward in the speaker's triangle. 
Correct 
Moving forward to engage your audience while delivering a closing point can help to emphasize it. 

What should you do with your hands while you're presenting?
A: Gesture when words match your emotions. Remember, too much movement becomes a distraction. 
Correct 
Using gestures to emphasize your emotions can help deliver more energy to an audience. Just be careful not to over-do it, as too much movement can become a distraction. 


M6: sharpening your skills
=====
Make an audio recording 

Make a video

3 times
1st time video only

2nd audio only

3rd time, audio and video

Toastmaster.org

What's an effective strategy for receiving feedback if you struggle with flat intonation, rambling, or using fillers when you speak?
A: Leave yourself a voicemail and listen to it to hear how you sound. 
Correct 
Leaving yourself a voicemail is a great way to catch any issues with your intonation. Continue sending yourself these voicemails, and share your progress with trusted colleagues, until a noticeable difference is made. 
 

How do effective presenters build credibility?
A: They include relevant information from ample, unbiased research, and they speak with authority.

What does “WIFT” stand for?
A: What’s in it for them, the audience


Your presentation should balance logic and emotion. Which question can you ask to verify that your presentation design is logical?
A:  Are your main points logically sequenced with smooth transitions and evidence to support them?

What is the best strategy to employ if you have access to the audience during your presentation?
A: If you have the opportunity, you should consider talking to your audience before the presentation and ask them, What do you want to get out of my presentation?


All of the following are strategies for reducing speaking anxiety EXCEPT _____.
A: Have ample amounts of caffeine and sugar before your presentation to increase your energy and enthusiasm.

In a popular scientific conference John presented his latest research. The audience was surprised that he took the time to explain every acronym and statistical method. Why did John take this approach?
A: John knew that young graduate students and family members were in attendance. He assumed that they didn't have the same level of knowledge as most members of the audience.


What should you do when practicing the delivery of your presentation?
A: all of these
Include visuals in your mock practice run.
Practice being conversational while keeping your main points and transitions in order.
Consider videotaping yourself to look for fillers or nervous movement. 


A speaker with strong emotional appeal does all of the following, except:
A: Wears a sharp looking suit so that he can look very professional.


Which choice best demonstrates effective eye contact during a presentation?
A: Hold eye contact for three seconds with as many people as you can to avoid looking like a lifeguard scanning the room.


A presentation with a solid logical foundation includes this element:
A: all of these answers
stories and examples to support claims 
quotes and interviews to support claims
statistics and data to support claims


Susan is meeting with the department head to get feedback about the best way to make a presentation. Which question will help Susan determine the scope of her presentation design?
A: “Do you prefer to know the big picture first before we dive into the details”?


