Communication within Teams
https://www.linkedin.com/learning/communication-within-teams/how-high-performing-teams-communicate?contextUrn=urn%3Ali%3AlyndaLearningPath%3A1~AAAAAAAgNkk%3D2684049&u=2111049

Why should everyone on a team have defined roles and responsibilities?
A: 
to avoid duplicate efforts and missed opportunities 
Correct 
Having defined roles and responsibilities reduces task redundancy and optimizes team efficiency. 

 
M1: Communicate within Teams
=====
Meeting convener, recorder, monitor

Establish roles

Convener (leader)

Delegate responsibilities

RACI
Responsible, accountable, consulted, informed

Go or No-Go

KPI, SMART

Conditions of satisfaction, low end, bare minimum

Team charter

Define expectation

Build trust in teams

Say-Do Gap

Simon says

Document expectations


Course "holding your team accountable"

SBI framework
Situation
Behavior
Impact

Feedback be specific

Provide feedbacks in teams

Manage conflicts

Task conflict
How work done ?

Interpersonal difference


	1. Ack conflicts
	2. Identify a good time for discussion
	3. Articulate perspectives
	4. How to avoid it in future
	

When you do/say X,  I feel Y

	1. Create virtual spaces/times
	2. Host monthly socials , 
	3. Ask good questions ( ask open ended questions)

Document in agreed central place

Cross culture communication

Language
Env
Socially organized
Context (high or low context culture)
Authority
Nonverbal communication
Time


Measure success
What was supposed to happen?
What actually happen?
What worked well and why ?
What we need change and why ?
How can I improve ?

What is the first step in resolving a conflict?
A: Acknowledge the conflict.

When should collaborative expectations be set?
A: when formulating the team charter

Half of a team works remote and half works onsite, dispersed in three time zones. When they create a team charter, what is the least likely expectations element needed in their project charter?
A: 
personality expectations 
Correct 
This is not included in the charter, but the team can define their expectations and dive deeper into how they can work best together. 


What action is MOST important when working with a virtual team?
A: 
Document everything using an agreed upon method that is easily accessible for everyone on the team. 
Correct 
Over Communication keeps everyone informed and prevents time being spent on checking different communication platforms to find necessary information. 


What should you try to avoid?
A: 
always scheduling virtual meetings based on the majority of the team's availability 
Correct 
While it will be tempting to always schedule based on the majority's availability, try to keep everyone's needs in mind.  If you can alternate times so that meeting times don't always inconvenience the same people, that would be ideal. 


What do you call the difference between what you say and what you actually do?
A: the say-do gap


Why is the LESCANT model important in international business settings?
A: It helps you consider cultural issues that can arise in professional communication.

A team is losing trust in their leader and questioning his credibility because he does not follow through. What would you tell the leader to do?
A: Get rid of the say-do gap. 
Correct 
The leader should be following through on what he says and is committed to, versus ignoring the team's needs. 


What is NOT an example of trust that can be seen in high functioning teams?
A: trusting team members to compensate for your lack of productivity

Which of these is NOT part of the LESCANT acronym?
A: Trade offs


To help build and maintain trust, leaders can reduce the say-do gap and try to _____ promise and _____ deliver.
A: under; over

What would you conduct AAR after a project's completion?
A: Learning from success and failure helps the team grow and allows success to be replicated in the future.

High-functioning teams often have three roles for meetings. What are they?
A: Convener, Recorder, Monitor

All of these statements about team accountability are true EXCEPT:
A: Consequences should always be punitive.

Cultural differences can affect how team members _____.
A: all of these answers
engage with authority
prioritize individualism versus collectivism
utilize non-verbal cues


What should you do when a team member fails to meet an expectation?
A: 
Take group accountability. 
Correct 
You will want to have consensus on this matter, so it should be discussed at the start of your project. 


What is the best time to share critical feedback?
A: 
privately, at a time that is convenient for both parties 
Correct 
You want to establish the conditions for a comfortable and productive conversation. 


You are the team lead for Project Stream. Which action would you take first in setting expectations with your team?
A: Set shared goals.

What question should NOT be asked when addressing accountability?
A: Who is to blame?

What is NOT a benefit of the RACI matrix?
A: 
determining scope of the project 
Correct 
The purpose of the matrix is to keep each other informed and collectively hold each other accountable. The scope of the project should be determined before working on the RACI matrix. 


Which example best follows the SBI framework?
A: During this morning's project presentation, I noticed that your presentation slides had spelling and grammar mistakes. My supervisor was present and I am concerned that it will reflect poorly on us as a team.


You need to give positive feedback to one team member, and constructive feedback to another team member. Which framework would you use to deliver both types of feedback?
A: the SBI framework 
Correct 
This framework enables you to deliver either type of feedback, based on the situation, behavior, and the impact of the behavior. 


In a RACI matrix, which role has the authority and resources to approve decisions?
A: Accountable

What is the most appropriate response to receiving feedback?
A: Thank them for the feedback, and then ask clarifying questions.

What is NOT a function of a team charter?
A: identifying who will be on the team 
Correct 
This will already have been decided. 


Social loafing



Exam
=====

Research shows that effective _____ produce better outcomes than _____.
A: teams; individuals or uncoordinated groups


Jamal tells Carla that something she said was hurtful to him. Now, it is Carla's turn to respond. What kind of response is best? 
A: Carla should articulate her understanding of Jamal's perspective. 

Which statement about conditions of satisfaction is FALSE?
A: Conditions of satisfaction should be established once team members confront their first obstacle.


What does AAR stand for?
A: after action review


What tool can you use to ensure team members are accountable for their roles and meeting minimum expectations?
A: the five W's

You manage a team that is geographically distributed. How can you encourage your team to engage in conversations?
A: all of these answers
Ask open-ended questions.
Create virtual spaces for conversations.
Host virtual socials.


You are in a meeting and your team's discussion starts to stray off topic. You interrupt the conversation and remind the group to stay focused on the key agenda items. In this scenario, what role did you take on?
A: Monitor


What is C in LESCANT
A: Context. It is important to know whether the teammate is from high or low context culture.


What is NOT true about a team charter?
A: Team charters should be created with an HR representative present.

Which of these questions might be included in a team charter?
A: all of these answers
What are your ground rules for communication?
How will you make decisions?
What will you do when a conflict arises?


A RACI matrix tracks and assigns responsibilities to team members. Which of these items is NOT a part of the RACI matrix? 
A: Approval






