Generative AI: Working with Large Language Models

Transforms in NLP

BERT GPT-3

Transforms in production

Curling, winter Olympic


Can you get medicine for someone CVS

BERT , TPU


RoBERTa. , meta

Which transformer-based machine learning technique NLP model does Google Search currently use?
A: BERT


M2: training transformer
======



Self attention

Multi-head attention

Feed forward


What is a benefit of transfer learning?
A: There is less data required to fine-tune.
Correct
Less data is required for fine-tuning because of the knowledge and representations that the model has gained during pre-training.

A self-attention mechanism works by comparing every word in the sentence to
A: every other word in the sentence
Correct
It incorporates embeddings for all other words in the sentence and then uses a weighted average of the embeddings of other context words.


If your task requires understanding of input text, which architecture model should you choose for your transformer?
A: encoder-only
Correct
These models are good for tasks that require an understanding of input text, such as sentence classification and named entity recognition.


Where are the relationships formed in a multi-head attention mechanism?
A: They are learned from the data.


M3: LLM
=====

Use cases

Challenges and shortcomings

Playgound

Gopher

BIG-bench (beyond limitation Game benchmark)

Guess movie name from emoji
Finding nemo 

PaLM

Pathway language model

Chain of thought prompting

OPT
Open 
Pre-Trained
Transformer


BLOOM decoder only model


What is one of the special features of BLOOM?
A: It's the first 100B+ parameter model in Spanish.
Correct
BLOOM will be the first language model ever created with over 100B parameters in such languages as Spanish, French, and Arabic.

Which of these statements is true?
A: GLaM has more parameters than GPT-3 but only a few of them are activated during training.
Correct
GLaM is seven times larger than GPT-3 and outperforms GPT-3 on a wide range of natural language tasks.


How many parameters does the Chinchilla model have?
A: 70B
Correct
Chinchilla is a 70B parameter model trained as a compute-optimal model with 1.4T tokens.


What is the main takeaway from the scaling laws?
A: Larger models will provide better performance.
Correct
The main takeaway is that increasing the model size can lead to significant performance improvements up to a certain point.


Using BIG-bench, which model outperformed the best-performing human on any task?
A: no model
Correct
Researchers found that no model, regardless of size, outperformed the best-performing human on any task.


In general, which size Gopher model performs the best?
A: 280B
Correct
In general, the 280B Gopher model has better accuracy scores compared to the smaller models.


What is one of the main takeaways from the Megatron-Turing NLG model?
A: There are more efficient ways to train large language models.
Correct
As the model's size increases, so does its capacity to understand and generate complex language.


What recommendations does the Chinchilla paper have compared to the scaling laws?
A: A smaller model trained on more data will be more performant.
Correct
Chinchilla performs better than other models, even though it was trained on the same amount of compute as all the larger models.

Which of the following was the pre-training task for GPT-3?
A: Next token prediction
Correct
Next token prediction involves training the model to predict the next token or word in a sequence of tokens given the preceding context.


Who can download and run OPT's 125M to 66B parameter model?
A: everyone
Correct
The OPT decoder-only pre-trained transformers, ranging from 125M to 66B parameters, can be downloaded and shared with everyone.




Exam
======

How does Chinchilla recommend the model size and training dataset size be scaled?
A: The model size and training dataset size should be scaled in equal proportions.


What is not a pre-training task for BERT?
A: Next token prediction

How many training tokens was Chinchilla trained on?
A: 1.4T


Which of the following is not one of the vector spaces used for word embeddings?
A:  
Correct answer
Word


What is the main takeaway from the Chinchilla paper?
A: Attempted correct option
Large language models have been under-trained.

If you need to summarize text, which transformer component do you not need?
A: encoder-only


What is the main difference between OPT and GPT-3?
A: With OPT, you can download the model weights.


GLaM architecture uses a Mixture-of-Experts layer that is derived from which type of model?
A: sparse

What did the Google research team find out about scaling model sizes?
A: 
Attempted correct option
Smaller models could perform certain tasks. After increasing the model size over a certain size, additional tasks could be performed.


How does GPT-3 provide the user a way to interact with models?
A: pompts


What is the main takeaway from Gopher?
A: 
Generally, larger models perform better than smaller models, except on logic-based tasks

How is the Megatron-Turing NLG model different than the GPT-3 model?
A: more layers and more attention heads


In regard to scaling laws, what does having a larger dataset result in?
A: a lower test loss

In which year was GPT-3 released?
A: 2020






