Deploy an Azure Kubernetes Service cluster
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/training/modules/deploy-azure-kubernetes-service-cluster/

• Create an Azure Kubernetes Service cluster.
• Configure Azure Kubernetes Service Components.
• Connect to an Azure Kubernetes Service cluster.
• Configure Microsoft Entra ID Integration.
• Monitor an Azure Kubernetes Service cluster.


Network topology

the hub-spoke network topology

Azure Bastion, and Azure Monitor for network observability.

Azure Private Link connections are created for the Azure Container Registry and Azure Key Vault


Plan the IP addresses

In AKS, each node pool maps to a Virtual Machine Scale Set.


Integrate Microsoft Entra ID for the cluster

There are two ways to manage AKS to Azure access through Microsoft Entra ID: service principals or managed identities for Azure resources.


By default, there are two primary identities used by the cluster, the cluster identity and the kubelet identity. 

The first is using Microsoft Entra as an identity provider integrated with the native Kubernetes RBAC system. The other is using native Azure RBAC to control cluster access.

Secure the network flow
Ingress traffic
Egress traffic
Pod-to-pod traffic
Management traffic:

There are two approaches: autoscaling or manual scaling.

The Horizontal Pod Autoscaler (HPA) is a Kubernetes resource that scales the number of pods.


Try-This exercise - Create an Azure Kubernetes Service cluster



1. What is the recommended approach for scaling Kubernetes clusters?
A: Autoscaling
Correct. Autoscaling is recommended because some of the manual mechanisms are built into the autoscaler, which can scale both pod replicas and the node count in the cluster.


2. What does the kubectl command 'apply' do?
A: Applies a configuration to a resource by filename or stdin


3. Why is it important to consider the address space of the virtual network when setting up an AKS cluster?
A: To ensure that all entities that receive traffic have an IP address allocated from the subnet address space


4. What is the purpose of deploying Private Link endpoints in a dedicated subnet within the spoke virtual network?
A: To enable granular security rules at the subnet level using network security groups.
Correct. Deploying Private Link endpoints in a dedicated subnet within the spoke virtual network allows for granular security rules to be applied at the subnet level using network security groups, which can help improve security.



