Configure an Azure Kubernetes Service cluster
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/training/modules/configure-azure-kubernetes-service-cluster/

Enable and configure Azure Policy for Azure Kubernetes Service.
Assign policy definitions to AKS
Use namespaces to logically isolate workloads and resources.
Enable host-based encryption for AKS agent nodes


Azure Policy extends Gatekeeper v3, an admission controller webhook for Open Policy Agent (OPA)


Try-This exercise - Enable Azure Policy add on for Azure Kubernetes Service



Select Policies, and select Enable add-on. 


Select Resource providers, and search for Microsoft.PolicyInsights.


https://portal.azure.com/#view/Microsoft_Azure_Policy/PolicyMenuBlade/~/Definitions


Host-based encryption on Azure Kubernetes Service
By default, when using AKS, OS and data disks use server-side encryption with platform-managed keys. 

Use host-based encryption on new clusters.
az aks create --name myAKSCluster --resource-group myResourceGroup -s Standard_DS2_v2 -l westus2 --enable-encryption-at-host

Use host-based encryption on existing clusters.
az aks nodepool add --name hostencrypt --cluster-name myAKSCluster --resource-group myResourceGroup -s Standard_DS2_v2 --enable-encryption-at-host


1. What is the purpose of Azure Policy in relation to Kubernetes clusters?
A: Enables the automation and validation of the creation and teardown of environments to help deliver secure and stable application hosting platforms.

2. What is host based encryption in Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)?
A: Enables encryption of data at rest on the VM host of AKS agent nodes using platform or customer managed keys, and encrypts data flows to the Storage service


3. What are the two Azure built-in roles that have the appropriate Azure RBAC policy assignment operations to assign a policy definition to your Kubernetes cluster?
A: Resource Policy Contributor and Owner
Correct. Resource Policy Contributor and Owner have the appropriate Azure RBAC policy assignment operations to assign a policy definition to your Kubernetes cluster.

4. What is the purpose of Azure Policy in relation to Kubernetes clusters?
A: Enables the automation and validation of the creation and teardown of environments to help deliver secure and stable application hosting platforms.




