Apply Networking concepts to Windows containers running on Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/training/modules/apply-networking-concepts-to-windows-containers/


• Describe networking concepts for Windows containers.
• Describe networking concepts for Kubernetes containers.


Container runtime: Docker

An internal virtual switch isn't directly connected to a physical NIC on the container host, only an external virtual switch is directly connected.


Container network interface (CNI) plugins

The processor in a standard Windows computer has a kernel mode and a user mode.

Windows containers support two types of runtime isolation: Process and Hyper-V. 

Network management with Host Network Service (HNS)

port ACLs are enforced by a combination of the Windows Firewall and Azure Virtual Filtering Platform (VFP). 

Windows supports five different networking drivers or modes for Docker containers: NAT, Transparent, Overlay, L2Bridge, and L2Tunnel.


Networking concepts for Kubernetes containers

Pods can communicate with one another across nodes without Network Address Translation (NAT).

Nodes and pods can communicate with each other without NAT.

two networking options: Services and Ingress controllers.


ClusterIP creates an internal IP address for use within the cluster. This service is good for internal-only applications that support other workloads within the cluster. This is the default that's used


NodePort creates a port mapping on the underlying node that allows the application to be accessed directly with the node IP address and port.


LoadBalancer creates a load balancer resource, configures an external IP address, and connects the requested pods to the load balancer backend pool.


Network policies offer a cloud-native approach that’s ideal for controlling traffic across Kubernetes pods.


To deploy Windows Server containers on AKS, your configuration must satisfy the following requirements:
	• Use the Azure CNI network plugin for your Kubernetes cluster.
	• Use Windows Server 2019 or later for your Windows nodes. Earlier versions of Windows Server don’t support overlay networks, which are required by Azure CNI.
	• Use Kubernetes version 1.14 or later. Earlier versions of Kubernetes don’t support Windows nodes or pods.


Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) Hybrid is a feature that enables you to extend your AKS cluster to run on-premises or on other clouds.

AKS Hybrid with Azure Arc

In AKS Hybrid, you can deploy a cluster by using the Flannel Overlay or Project Calico networking model. Both implementations use an overlay network configuration model. 


1. Which types of virtual switches are used in container networking?
A: NAT, Transparent, Overlay
Correct. Windows containers on Kubernetes require Azure container network interface (CNI) plugins. The Azure CNI plugin is an overlay virtual switch network solution. Two examples include Flannel Overlay and Project Calico.


What two types of runtime network isolation are supported for Windows containers?
A: Process, Hyper-V
Correct. Windows containers support Process and Hyper-V network isolation. Under process isolation, containers on the same host support isolation through the namespace, resource control settings, and other process functions. Under Hyper-V isolation, each container runs in an optimized virtual machine that provides hardware-level isolation between the container and the host.


What's the purpose of an ingress controller in a Kubernetes networking configuration?
A: Configure traffic routing for Kubernetes services
Correct. When you use ingress rules with an ingress controller, you can configure a single IP address to route network traffic to multiple services in a Kubernetes cluster.



