Drive higher utilization of your Java apps - autoscaling
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/training/modules/autoscale-java-azure/

• Set up a sample Azure Spring Apps architecture that scales up and down based on load.
• Understand autoscaling concepts.
• Monitor the effects of autoscaling.
• Understand common design patterns for autoscaling.



Exercise - Sample application environment

git clone https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/mslearn-autoscale-java
cd mslearn-autoscale-java
code deployPetClinicApp.sh


bash deployPetClinicApp.sh

Vertical scaling, also called scaling up

Horizontal scaling, also called scaling out and in


Real-world example
Raley’s grocery stores needed to modernize the code and infrastructure for their Java-powered e-commerce sites hosted on Azure.


Autoscale conditions
There are two rule types:
	• Metric-based rules
	• Schedule-based rules



Trigger the scale-out action with a script

export SPRING_APPS_SERVICE=<spring-apps-instance-name>

cd mslearn-autoscale-java
sh loadTest.sh

Data is retrieved from a Log Analytics workspace using a log query, which is a read-only request to process data and return results. Log queries are written in Kusto Query Language (KQL),


AutoscaleEvaluationsLog



1. Which of these statements best describes autoscaling?
A: Autoscaling is a scale out/scale in solution. The system can scale out when specified resource metrics indicate increasing usage, and scale in when these metrics drop.


2. Which of these scenarios is a suitable candidate for autoscaling?
 A: The number of users requiring access to an application varies according to a regular schedule. For example, more users use the system on a Friday than other days of the week.

Your organization is running a promotion and expects to see increased traffic to their web site for the next couple of weeks. You base your autoscaling strategy on counters that measure business processes.
If you base your autoscaling strategy on counters that measure business processes, such as the number of orders placed per hour or the average execution time of a complex transaction, ensure that you fully understand the relationship between the results from these types of counters and the actual compute capacity requirements.




3. The DevOps team for a large food delivery company is configuring an Azure Spring Apps implementation. Friday night is typically the busiest time. Conversely, 7 AM on Wednesday is generally the quietest time. Which of the following autoscale rule types should be configured?
 A: A schedule-based rule.


Clean up
az group delete --name <your Resource Group Name> --yes






