Introduction to Artificial Intelligence
https://www.linkedin.com/learning/introduction-to-artificial-intelligence/why-you-need-to-know-about-artificial-intelligence?contextUrn=urn%3Ali%3AlyndaLearningPath%3A6477ad5c498e72fec31ca876&u=2111049

M1: what is AI
=====


General problem solver

Strong AI vs weak AI

Why did some of the earliest artificial intelligence systems focus on board games such as checkers and chess?
A: It's easiest to make a computer system seem intelligent when it's working with set rules and patterns.


You're a product manager who's in charge of building a weak AI expert system that will give tax advice. You're working with dozens of accountants who go through thousands of different taxpayer scenarios. When a customer asks a question, then the expert system will ask a follow-up question. It will do this until it makes a recommendation. What's one of the biggest challenges with this system?
A: There will be too many tax combinations for the experts to cover with one system.


Luella seeks medical attention for chest pains. A nurse uses an artificial intelligence program to diagnose the cause. Why is this system likely not really intelligent?
A: The program only matches her symptoms to steps in a system an expert created.


M2: machine learning 
=====
Not much digital data in 1950s

Neural networks

Input layer, Hidden layer,  output layer


How does an artificial neural network learn?
A: It looks at the data and makes guesses, then it compares those guesses to the correct answer.


M3: common AI systems
=====
Robotics

Natural language processing

The internet of things
IoT


The healthcare and medical insurance industries caution against using machine learning to search for patterns in data, and they do not want machines making decisions about a person's health. Why?
A: They may be decisions that humans cannot understand.

What type of impact does artificial intelligence have on robotics?
A: AI systems can create robots that can more easily learn new tasks.

What impact will the Internet of Things (IoT) have on artificial intelligence?
A: These devices will be a great new source of “real world” data.

M4: learn from data
=====

Labeled and unlabeled data

Supervised learning 

Training data set

Larger Test set

Binary classification


A new online camping goods store wants to find connections between products customers buy and other products they might buy. Why would the company use unsupervised learning?
A: It does not yet have enough customers to make supervised learning meaningful.


You're a preschool worker and you want to teach your class the letters in the alphabet. So you draw the letter “B” on the board. Then you ask the two-year-old students to find a block with that same letter. Some of the students correctly find the blocks with the letter “B”, but some of the students confuse the letter “B” with the letter “D.” So the incorrect students compare their block to the letter “B” on the board, recognize the error and then decide to get another block. What type of learning is this?
A: 
supervised learning 
Correct 
Supervised learning relies on labeled data. In this case the two-year-old students would use the letter written on the board as labeled data. Then they would try to classify the unknown data (the blocks) by matching the label. If the student sees that they made a mistake, they adjust and take another guess. 


M5: identify patterns
=====
Classify data:
----
Fraud, Spam, 


Cluster data:
----
Mouse and keyboard

Beer, diaper

Candies in trick treat

Reinforcement data:
----
Q-learning
Apple music, Spotify, Tidal


Why might you want to use reinforcement learning instead of unsupervised learning?
A: 
Reinforcement learning allows the machine to make predictions and create strategies instead of just clustering the data. 
Correct 
Reinforcement learning can create strategies to better find patterns in the data. Unsupervised learning just tries to create clusters based on what it already sees in the data. So if you were developing an AI system to buy related items, an unsupervised system would create a cluster of items frequently bought together by other customers. A reinforcement system might invent a strategy to encourage customers to purchase something new. 


What is one of the greatest challenges with supervised learning binary classification?
A: 
You need a lot of pre-classified or labeled data for the training set. 
Correct 
Supervised machine learning relies on labeled data for the training set. That means if you wanted to create a system that looked for dogs in images you needed to have tens of thousands of images known to contain dogs. Sometimes it's difficult to find that much labeled data. 



M6: Machine learning Algorithms
=====
K-nearest neighbor
KNN
Minimize distance


K-means clustering:
Unsupervised

 

Regression
Sports car,  suv


Naïve Bayes:


You work for a company that’s selling electric cars to consumers. The company wants to get the maximum amount of value from its advertising dollars. So it wants to ramp up advertising when it thinks that customers would be most interested in purchasing an electric car. Your data science team wants to create a regression analysis based on fuel prices. How might this look on an XY diagram?
A: 
Create a trendline with fuel prices along the X axis and electric car sales on the Y axis. 
Correct 
To do a regression analysis, data science teams will typically plot their data on an XY diagram. Then they will see if there are any trends in the data by creating a line in the center of the largest data point groupings. This is typically called a trendline. If the data has a clear trendline then it will be easier to predict relationships between the two variables. In this case, there might be a clear trend where when fuel prices rise, people are more likely to buy electric cars. 


How is K Nearest Neighbor like the old saying, “birds of a feather flock together?”
A: 
Classify unknown data against the closest data that you do know. 
Correct 
This old saying is one of the best ways to remember the key strength of K Nearest Neighbor. This machine learning algorithm is a quick way to classify data that's similar and might “flock together.” 


M7: fit the Algorithm
=====
Kitchen tools

Ensemble modeling 

Bagging : several version

Stacking: several different algorithm

Follow the data
----

High bias,  low variance

Bias-variance trade off



Overfitting and underfitting
-----

Pre-shool rules before sleep ; underfit


Zillow:  overfitting

What is ensemble modeling?
A: 
This is when you use a mix of different machine learning algorithms or data to improve the outcome. 
Correct 
Ensemble modeling is when you use several machine learning algorithms to make better predictions. Two of the most popular techniques are bagging and stacking. Bagging uses the same machine learning algorithm with different data sets to improve the prediction power. Stacking can use several different machine learning algorithms “stacked” on top of each other to improve the predictions. 


You work for a credit card company that's trying to do a better job identifying fraudulent transactions. So your team uses unsupervised learning to create clusters of transactions that are likely to be fraudulent. The machine identified that when customers are buying electronics it's much more likely to be a fraudulent transaction. So you use this model for your new fraud detection system. Then customers started to complain that they couldn't use their credit cards to purchase any electronics. What is the challenge with your model?
A: You underfit the model to the data, the simple rule made too many inaccurate predictions.
When you create a model, you need to be careful not to underfit or overfit the data. Sometimes you can identify patterns that work with a small set of data but that doesn't fit when you start to look at larger datasets. This is called underfitting the data. Other times you can add more variables. This can create a lot of complexity and you might miss data outliers (data that is close but doesn't quite fit the model). This is called overfitting the data.


How does the bias-variance trade-off affect machine learning?
A: 
If the machine makes a change to one, it must consider how the other is affected. 
Correct 
For example, correcting high bias could lead to higher variance, which would make the data less reliable. 


M8: neural networks
=====

Feedforward network

Weigh the connections


Activation bias


Kira is building a neural network to identify customer returns using binary classifications of defective or unsatisfied. In which layer of this neural network will Kira have a probability score?
A: 
the output layer 
Correct 
The output layer has probability scores for the two binary classifications that help determine whether the network properly tunes itself. 


You work for a security firm that wants to use an artificial neural network to create a video facial recognition system. So you create a training set with hundreds of images of people that are found in your video footage. You initialize the artificial neural network with random weights assigned to all its connections. When you feed through the first few images the system does a terrible job identifying whether those people are included in the video. What would the artificial neural network now do to try and improve?
A: 
It will adjust the weights of the connections to see if it does a better job making a prediction. 
Correct 
A supervised learning artificial neural network is self-tuning. That means it makes a prediction and then checks that prediction against the labeled data. The network tunes itself by adjusting the weights of the connections and the bias on the neurons. Then it sees if these adjustments improve the outcome. 


M9: improve accuracy
=====
Cost function

Learn from mistakes

Find dog in image


With an artificial neural network what is the point of having a cost function?
A: 
It helps the network determine the cost of the error so they can make larger or smaller adjustments to its guesses. 
Correct 
Artificial neural networks need a measurement of “wrongness.” That way it knows how much to adjust its weights and biases. This is typically done through a calculation of the gradient descent which will increase or decrease the cost function. If it's very wrong, it will make big changes to the weights and biases. If it's slightly wrong, it will make much smaller changes. 


How can you best describe the cost function as it applies to neural networks?
A: 
a number the system uses to measure its answer against the correct answer 
Correct 
Cost function is a measure of wrongness, which in turn determines how much adjustment to weights and biases is needed. 



M10 where to go from here?
=====

Generative
Pre-trained




exam
====
Imagine that you work for a university that wants to use machine learning and Naive Bayes to predict which students might have difficulty graduating. So you create three predictors. These are financial hardship, grade point average and class attendance. In a meeting, a data scientist points out that you might not want to use class attendance and grade point average because they are strongly autocorrelated. If someone doesn't attend class, then they'll likely get a poor grade. How might you answer this question?
A: Naive Bayes is naive because it can classify even when predictors are autocorrelated.


Vera, the company CEO, is exploring the use of artificial intelligence (AI) for her company. What will determine whether or not her company is a good candidate for AI?
A:  Her company's data has set rules and patterns.


Why is important to understand different algorithm?
A: They are tools to help you decide what reports you'd like to see or problems you'd like to solve.


Imagine that you work for a health insurance company. Your company covers a lot of people who suffer from diabetes. The organization wants to research the characteristics of people with diabetes. That way the company can intervene and try to change the customers’ behavior to prevent future illness. How can your insurance company use K means clustering to help?
A: Research the character traits of the cluster with the highest number of diabetics.



With an artificial neural network, the weights are added to the connections, but the bias is added to the neuron. Why does the network need to be set up this way?
A: Because the bias is a reaction to the adjustments in the weights of the connections.


What is difference between training data and test data
Training data is the data the machine uses to learn, test data is a sample of data to test what it learned.


You're a product manager for a team that's using an artificial neural network to develop your product. One of the data scientists says that the back propagation of errors is correcting for guesses that have a steep gradient descent. What is that saying about the network?
A: The network is making predictions that are turning out to be very wrong.
Note: follow up

What's the difference between classified and clustered data?
A: Classified data works with human created classifications or labels.


Your product manager is working for a website that sells clothing fabrics. You're working on an AI natural language processing product that allows customers to do natural language searches. What will be one of the biggest challenges with your new AI system?
A: Humans tend to describe things as qualities such as “dark” and “soft” which are difficult to translate into search results.


You're a preschool worker and you ask a class of two-year-olds to arrange toy blocks in a way that makes sense to them. One of the two-year-olds creates three groups of blocks based on the color. Another one of the two-year-olds creates five groups of blocks based on the letter painted on the block. What type of learning is this?
A: unsupervised learning


A business that uses robotics may also use artificial intelligence rather than machine learning. What is a financial reason for this decision
A: There is a higher price to pay if the robotics makes a mistake.


What is one of the key advantages to having several hidden layers in your artificial neural network?
A: This deep learning artificial neural network can identify very complex patterns.

Why has machine learning become the dominant form of artificial intelligence?
A: Because these systems have benefited from access to massive amounts of digital data.


You take a new job where you need to arrive by bus in 30 minutes. There are two buses available to you. The first is a bus that makes all the local stops. This local bus is quicker if there are just a few people. The second is an express bus that drops you off a few blocks from your job. You try both buses the first week of your job. With the local bus you get to work in 20 minutes, 30 minutes, and 45 minutes. The express bus always gets you to work in 35 minutes. What is the data challenge with these two buses?
A:  The local bus has a high variance, and the express bus has a high bias.


What was the core finding of the Chinese room experiment?
A: Finding patterns in symbols is not the same as intelligence.


What's the biggest difference between symbolic systems and machine learning?
A: A symbolic system needs to be programmed to connect symbols to patterns, while machine learning discovers patterns by looking at the data.








